Changes from 1.94.3 to 1.94.4 

o Security fix for advertise/noadvertise eval hole.
o Security fix for wrapper env overrun
o Fixed race condition in unsubscribing, config lock not being freed,
  EOF tests fail due to bad assumptions
o mungedomain wasn't working properly
o fixes to commented-out sample.cf code.
o archive2.pl now has -D -M -Y arguments for 4 digit years.
o added "welcome" and "announcments" keywords.
o Digest fixes for -C


Changes from 1.94.2 to 1.94.3:

o removed wrapper since it snuck into the tarball
o fixed medit.

Changes from 1.94.1 to 1.94.2:

o More documentation fixes.
o increased checking in regexps
o better locking
o ignore directories in the list directory.
o resend doesn't abort if the sendmail error is EX_NOUSER


Changes from 1.94 to 1.94.1

Improved Installation:

The installation process has been improved.  The Makefile is now simpler
and makes use of an external "install" program (included as install.sh).

The permissions for all installed files can be easily set in the Makefile.
In addition, the default permission for $homedir has been made slightly
more lenient, to avoid problems with the mailer not being able to execute
the wrapper.

The installation checker, config-test, has been improved with more checks
and better detection of situations where it's being run improperly.  It
will automatically warn of new configuration variables that should be set
in majordomo.cf.

The digest and archive2.pl programs have been moved from the Tools
directory to the main directory since they are usually run by the wrapper
and must be there anyway.


Changes visible to the Majordomo owner:

The default $sendmail_command now includes the -oee option to force
sendmail to mail as many errors as possible instead of exiting with nonzero
exit code at unpredictable times.

Code is provided in majordomo.cf to prevent majordomo, resend and the
tools from running when the system load average exceeds a configurable
limit.  This code is disabled by default.  It requires the standard
"uptime" command.

The default umask for all majordomo-created files is now set in
majordomo.cf, and defaults to 007.

The variable $shlock'retries has been renamed to $shlock'waittime to better
match its actual meaning as the maximum time (in seconds) that the locking
system will wait for a lock.

A new variable, $majordomo_dont_reply, has been added.  Majordomo will not
respond to any piece of mail sent from an address matching this regular
expression.  It defaults to '(mailer-daemon|uucp|listserv|majordomo)\@'.

The locking system has been improved and should have much greater
resistance to looping and otherwise uncontrolled behavior in the face of
improperly set permissions and nonexistent files.

Many bugs relating to an improperly set $bounce_mailer have been fixed.
This should end the abort messages complaining about null mailers not being
executable.


Changes visible to list owners:

If a list adds its own Reply-To: header, any Reply-To: header in
incoming messages will be removed.


Changes visible to end users:

Requests for confirmation have been made more detailed, and the backslash
syntax for splitting long lines has been explained in those messages.

Confirmation messages sent by the "subscribe" command have been
improved.  They contain more reasons why a confirmation request
may not be received.


Many more checks for illegal addresses have been included.  Users are
informed when they supply only their name or otherwise supply a nonsense
address.

The response to the who command includes a subscriber count.
